Conda developer docs (#36167)
mantidproject/mantid: dev-docs/source/CondaPackageManager.rst

.. _CondaPackageManager:

=====================
Conda Package Manager
=====================

.. contents::
   :local:

Mantid uses `Conda <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/>`_ as its package management system. This document gives a
developer overview on how we use the Conda package manager, including tips on how to debug dependency issues, and

> our policy towards using pip packages (it is strongly discouraged).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
our policy towards using ``pip`` packages (it is strongly discouraged).
```

Creating Environments
---------------------

> Creating an empty environment:

Reviewer: It might be good to be explicit here that the environment can be called anything.
```suggestion
Creating an empty environment called ``myenv``:
```

.. code-block:: sh

  conda create --name myenv

Creating a Python environment:

.. code-block:: sh

  conda create --name myenv python=3.10

Creating an environment from file:

.. code-block:: sh

  conda create --name myenv -f mantid-developer-<OS>.yml

Creating an environment from package:

.. code-block:: sh

  conda create --name myenv -c mantid mantidworkbench

Creating an in-place environment:

.. code-block:: sh

  conda create --prefix $PWD/myenv python=3.10

Finding a broken dependency
---------------------------

The nightly pipelines can sometimes fail for obscure reasons, seemingly unrelated to the changes made within

> Mantid. In this case, it is probable that a Conda dependency has had an update, and the new update is "Broken"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mantid. In this case, it is probable that a Conda dependency has updated and the new update is "Broken"
```

> (if its a minor or patch update) or no longer compatible with Mantid (if it is a major update).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(if it is a minor or patch update) or no longer compatible with Mantid (if it is a major update).
```

To find the dependency which has changed, you can run the ``tools/Jenkins/dependency_spotter.py`` script. This

> script takes two build numbers, and optionally the OS label, the pipeline name, and the name of the file to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
script takes two jenkins build numbers, and optionally the OS label, the pipeline name, and the name of the file to
```

> compare. It will then output the changes in Conda package versions used in the two builds, if there are any. An

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compare. It will then output the changes in Conda package versions used in the two builds, if there are any. A
```
